What would we do without forests?
Forests help to sustain
our supply of fresh water,
they purify the air,
and forests convert carbon dioxide
into life-sustaining oxygen.
Yes, forests are vital to our existence.
Yet, scientists warn
that we’re in danger of losing
this precious resource.
This causes some people to wonder
whether God cares
about what’s happening to the forest.
We may even ask, ‘Will the loss of forests
affect God’s ability to fulfill his promise
to make the earth a paradise?’
The simple answer to that question
is absolutely not!
Jehovah has everything under control.
Please watch the following video.
It will strengthen your faith
in the Designer of the forest.
Trees can grow very strong
and withstand powerful forces.
But if they didn’t decompose after they die,
trees and leaves would pile up
with their nutrients locked away inside.
Yet, they do decompose.
How?
Most animals cannot eat
fallen wood and leaves,
but fungi can.
They break down the dead plant tissues,
making them softer.
Beetles and termites
bore through the wood,
exposing more surface area
and spreading the fungi inside,
which soften it further
so that other insects
can enjoy the feast.
Earthworms aerate the soil
and pull nutrients down
where they can be used by other plants.
Decomposers have been called
the unsung heroes of the natural world.
They recycle organic matter
so that it is available
to support new life.
Through this process,
Jehovah made it possible for us
to enjoy earth’s lush beauty
—generation after generation.
“Let the fields
and everything in them rejoice.
“At the same time let all the trees
of the forest shout joyfully.”
Amazing!
Will you ever look at a forest
in the same way again?
Think about what the decomposition
and recycling of organic matter
means for us and our future.
Those beetles, termites, and earthworms
—the unsung heroes of the natural world—
will keep on doing their job
throughout eternity.
Reflect for a moment:
If Jehovah had the wisdom to create forests
that can replenish themselves,
surely he knows how to undo the damage
that man has done to the earth.
Jehovah hasn’t revealed all the details
of how he is going to restore the earth,
but we can be confident
that he will fulfill his promise
to make “all things new.”
Please open your Bibles
to Psalm 37:10, 11, 29.
This scripture contains a promise
regarding man and the earth.
Psalm 37:10, 11, 29
reads:
“Just a little while longer,
and the wicked will be no more;
“you will look at where they were,
and they will not be there.
“But the meek will possess the earth,
“and they will find exquisite delight
“in the abundance of peace.
“The righteous will possess the earth,
and they will live forever on it.”
How reassuring!
People who are righteous and meek
will be on the earth forever,
and that earth will be a paradise.
But there are at least two requirements
for Jehovah to accomplish this.
He’s already taken care
of the first requirement.
We saw proof of that in the video.
Jehovah created the forest
with an amazing rejuvenation system.
So in spite of man’s prolonged misuse
of the forest,
Jehovah has already put in place
the mechanism to undo
all the damage that man has done.
Doesn’t the marvelous design of the forest
build your faith in Jehovah’s promise
of a paradise?
The second requirement
to make the earth a paradise
is described in verse 10
of Psalm 37 that we just read.
There it says:
“And the wicked will be no more.”
Not only will Jehovah undo
the damage that men have done
but he will also remove
the source of the problem.
Greedy men who exploit and misuse
this precious resource will be gone.
Therefore, we have no reason to fear
that humans will continue to ruin the earth
until it reaches the point of no return.
Jehovah knows what is going on.
Please open your Bibles
to Revelation chapter 11,
and we’ll read verse 18.
This scripture assures us
that Jehovah cares about our planet
because it is his planet,
and it confirms
that he is going to hold men accountable
for their actions.
Revelation 11:18 says:
“But the nations became wrathful,
and your own wrath came,
“and the appointed time came
for the dead to be judged
“and to reward your slaves the prophets
and the holy ones
“and those fearing your name,
the small and the great,
“and to bring to ruin
those ruining the earth.”
Jehovah is not going to let wicked men
ruin his beautiful creation.
Nothing can stop Jehovah
from carrying out his purpose for the earth.
Our examination of the forest
has strengthened our faith
that Jehovah will accomplish
everything that he has in mind to do.
The words of faithful Job
reflect our conviction
that that promise will come true.
As recorded at Job 42:2,
Job was moved to declare regarding Jehovah:
“Now I know that you are able
to do all things
“and that nothing you have in mind to do
is impossible for you.”
What does Jehovah have in mind to do?
One thing is to transform the earth
into a paradise
with rich, abundant forests
—forests that will continue to help sustain
our supply of fresh water,
to purify our air,
and to convert carbon dioxide into oxygen.
The video that we just watched
quoted Psalm 96:12, which declares:
“Let all the trees of the forest
shout joyfully.”
By their very existence,
forests praise their Creator.
And we can add our joyful shouts of praise
to those of the forest.
Therefore, may we continue to use creation
to build our faith,
because if we do that,
we will see
the restored life-sustaining forests
bring happiness to perfect humans
and praise to their Creator, Jehovah,
forever.
Brother Leonard Myers,
a helper to the Writing Committee,
will now present the next talk
of this symposium,
“Use Creation to Build Your Faith
—Wind and Water.”